UNDERSTANDING MARKETING HUB
Video 1: Why is Marketing Hub Important for an Inbound Business?
Hey there, it's Kara from the HubSpot Academy team.
Learning new software tools can be challenging. If you're new to the HubSpot
platform, you might find yourself asking, "What's Marketing Hub?".
First, a HubSpot HUB is a group of tools in a related area of work.
Thus, Marketing Hub offers marketing and automation tools. It helps you attract the
right audience, convert more visitors into customers, and run complete inbound
marketing campaigns at scale. At a high level, you can use Marketing Hub to host and
optimize traffic to your website, nurture your contacts through tailored web and email
channels, and manage authentic relationships using segmentation and automation
tools.
So why is this important for an inbound business?
The inbound methodology can be broken down into three stages: attract, delight,
and engage.
In the attract stage, the goal is to draw in the right people with valuable content and
conversations. In the engage stage, the purpose is to present insights and solutions
that align with a lead's pain points and goals so they're more likely to buy from you. In
the delight stage, the goal is to provide help and support that empowers your
customers to find success with their purchase.
With Marketing Hub, you can tackle each of these stages all in one easy-to-use
platform.
Attract the right audience using Marketing Hub's blog, SEO, ads, social media, video,
and live chat features. You can engage and convert more leads with landing pages,
forms, marketing automation, email marketing, and lead management features.
Delight your customers with smart content, automated emails, and the conversation
inbox.
But developing effective marketing campaigns is only one aspect to growing your
inbound business. While Marketing Hub is just as powerful alone, the real magic
1

happens when you use it with HubSpot's other software, such as Sales Hub, Service
Hub, CMS Hub, and Operations Hub.
All of these Hubs are supported by HubSpot's CRM. The CRM stores all of your
business' information such as, contacts, companies, deals, tickets, and tasks.
Essentially, the CRM serves as a single source of truth between Hubs.
This structure eliminates the need for complicated tool integrations and makes
reporting on your overall marketing success feel seamless.
For example, a new contact could be created manually by a sales rep or through a
support ticket form submission. This contact's information and activity history will
then show in the shared CRM database. As a result, your marketing team can engage
with that contact in the most effective way by using the information stored in the
CRM.
Having shared information helps align data across your company and have more
meaningful conversations with your contacts. Marketing Hub provides everything you
need to create effective inbound marketing campaigns, and ultimately, happy
customers.

Video 2: How to Navigate Marketing Hub
With Marketing Hub, you have the tools needed to launch effective marketing
campaigns that attract, engage, and delight your customers. Let's take a closer look
at what these are, but keep in mind, these may vary by subscription.
Effective lead segmentation and nurturing is at the core of every marketer's strategy.
To access the tools that support these functions, navigate to the Contacts dropdown
menu and select Contacts.
Here, you'll see a list of your leads and their data, shown as contact records. If you
click into a record, you'll find information, like their name, email address,
documentation of each interaction you've had with them, and more.
Using this information, you can segment these contacts into lists. To access your Lists
tool, navigate to the Contacts dropdown menu again and select Lists. Here, you'll
find your existing lists, as well as the ability to create new ones. By using lists, you can
create hyper-targeted segments to help deliver your content to the right people, at
the right time.
2

But how will you deliver this content? That's where your other Marketing Hub tools
can help. Navigate to the Marketing dropdown menu to find the tools you need to
attract, engage, and delight your customers.
Select Ads if you're looking to build and manage a new ad campaign for Facebook,
Instagram, LinkedIn, or Google.
Click Email to build personalized emails that help engage and nurture your leads,
without needing a designer or IT.
Click Landing Pages to build and launch conversion-focused pages for your website
that will convert more visitors into leads.
Select Social if you're looking to manage and publish your social media content all
from one tool, for Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and LinkedIn.
You can also use Marketing Hub to optimize your website and start building your
online authority. Hover over Website and click Website Pages to drag and drop
your way to a polished design, select Blog to write and publish new content, or
choose SEO to get real-time suggestions to optimize your website for search engine
results pages.
To organize your marketing assets and make it easier to measure the effectiveness of
your campaigns, select Campaigns.
Hover over Files and Templates and click Design Tools for additional
customizations for your web pages and emails. Select Files to upload and store any
documents or multimedia, and choose HubDB to store, filter, and display data
dynamically on your web pages.
To generate more leads, consider our lead capture options. Hover over Lead
Capture and select CTAs to build effective calls-to-action buttons, or select Forms to
design conversion-focused forms that help you capture leads.
Next, navigate to the Automation dropdown menu and select Workflows. By using
Workflows, you can create lead nurture or drip campaigns and queue a series of
emails that deliver information specific to each lead or list, helping them convert to
customers.
Finally, see how all of your marketing activities are performing with the Marketing
Hub reporting tools. Navigate to the Reports dropdown menu and select Analytics
tools. Here, you can explore different marketing trends, like traffic, ads, clicks, and
more.
3

Navigate back to Reports in your menu and select Dashboards. Here, you will find an
overview of the most important reports you selected to view, all in one place.
Navigate to your menu one more time, select Reports, and then Reports again. This
is where you will find and create custom reports that analyze the marketing efforts
most relevant to you.
And there you have it! With Marketing Hub, you have the tools to attract the right
visitors to your website, engage and nurture your contacts through tailored web and
email content channels, and manage personalized relationships at scale using
segmentation and automation tools.

Video 3: How to Use Marketing Hub as an All-in-one Toolset
Let’s discuss how the Marketing Hub tools work together as an all-in-one toolset so
you can maximize your value.
Because Marketing Hub is intended to help you achieve your marketing goals
holistically, you'll be able to use the tools as one connected unit without needing to
spend time translating metrics or exporting data across systems.
For example, what if you wanted to know which of your blog posts were the most
successful at handing off traffic to a form conversion?
Without Marketing Hub, reporting on that metric might involve several different
platforms to create the blog post, the form, the landing page, and a system to report
on all of it. Because all those assets are controlled and managed in Marketing Hub,
your blog performance reports will show you which posts get the most traffic right
alongside the report that ties posts to conversions, with no extra work on your part.
You can accomplish a wide range of marketing productivity all within your Marketing
Hub given the breadth of its tools.
Here are a few examples of Marketing Hub projects you might choose to implement
over the next few months:
•
•
•
•
•

An educational eBook offer
A gift raffle for customer survey submissions
Automated post-purchase customer reselling
A holiday special e-commerce discount
An educational webinar static-date event
4

One last thing to consider with an all-in-one toolset is that you'll get the most value
when you're using all the tools together rather than using some and not others. To
illustrate, what if we took the earlier example of wanting to track which blog posts
lead to conversions?
If you were not using the HubSpot blog and were instead hosting your blog outside
of HubSpot then you would also be passing up on using the HubSpot blog specific
reports and the blog portion of the HubSpot campaign tool, making your campaign
reporting experience less comprehensive.
In short, the more completely you use the Hub, the better the individual tools can
help you.

Video 4: How to Use Marketing Hub to Achieve Your Goals
Perhaps you understand what tools comprise Marketing Hub and what kinds of
projects could be achieved with your tools, but how do you go about deciding what
to work on next?
Before making plans, it's important to understand the business goals you're
responsible for achieving, and the indicators you're tracking to help meet those
goals. It may be partially accurate to say "we need to make more money" as your
primary business goal, but to create actionable next steps, you want to be a bit more
specific in what you define as a goal, as well as the metrics that track your progress.
Once you have your business goals and indicators defined, also called key
performance indicators, or KPIs for short, you can begin to work on creating specific
short-term productivity goals focused on hitting your KPIs, and consequently
contribute to the larger business goals.
In short, we’re talking about taking something very big and breaking it down into
bite-sized components that you can focus on in the short-term.
Setting goals and creating KPIs to keep your marketing efforts on track is something
that should involve more than just yourself. It will need to be explored on an ongoing
basis to ensure you have input and agreement from your related teams.
The business goals you select with your team will dictate which indicators you report
on. The indicators will dictate the tactics you use to launch your campaign. When
you're using Marketing Hub, your indicators will likely include improving the
following three metrics: driving more monthly website traffic, increasing the rate of
5

visitors you convert to contacts, and nurturing contacts so that they can be handed off
to the sales team at a higher rate.
Having said that, you'll want to do the following three things to ensure your goals are
set reasonably and accurately:
1. Identify current performance in your marketing efforts before setting new KPI
targets.
2. Determine where you have gaps in your marketing process or content to
identify areas of opportunity.
3. Create detailed marketing productivity plans to systematically address your
marketing opportunities.
Let’s start with the first part: identifying your performance baseline to set reasonable
goals.
Once you identify your current performance for your KPIs, you can then move on to
determine what is a reasonable new target number that would improve your
performance in an achievable increment.
To give you an example, if you are currently getting 1,000 website visitors each
month then you wouldn't set a KPI goal of six months from now driving 10,000 visitors
each month - that would be astonishing! Of course, each organization has different
circumstances, but if you improved your current number by about 10% each month
then in six months, you'd have a much more realistic target of driving about 1,800
visitors a month, which is still fairly aggressive growth!
Next, you’ll need to understand where you have gaps in your marketing strategy that
represent areas of opportunity for your organization.
Let's do a quick audit together by reviewing the following questions:
•
•
•
•

Do you need to convert traffic on your site to known contacts at a higher rate?
Are you converting website visitors, and would like to increase your traffic
overall?
Are you converting contacts from your website traffic, and need to follow-up
with their engagement in a timely and personalized way?
Are there contacts in your database that could purchase from you (or purchase
again) that have not received a reach-out in the last 6 months?

6

These questions are a simple starting point for determining where in your marketing
process you may have an opportunity for improvement, and are arranged in the
order that generally aligns with the logical order of priority for most marketing teams.
Now you can move on to the last step of creating your next marketing project plan
with a prioritized approach.
For each of the four questions, here are some general productivity ideas you can
work on with your team to address the area of opportunity corresponding to each
question.
For the first area of opportunity - converting traffic - you'll want to think about the
ease of access visitors have to engage with you or your team through your website.
Do you have many places where a contact might submit their email and one or two
qualifying questions?
To increase conversion through your website you could release a content offer
campaign focused on delivering value to your website visitors in exchange for their
contact information.
Say you plan to produce your downloadable asset in two weeks, create your
promotional blog post, social posts, and email content in two weeks, and schedule
your promotional content to be spread out over the four weeks following your
launch.
The expected KPI result may be something along the lines of 200 views of your
landing page after a month of promotion with a 25% conversion of traffic on that
page.
For the second area of opportunity around increasing overall website traffic, one
project you’ll want to consider is launching or optimizing your blog content using the
Content Strategy and SEO tools.
Perhaps you decide that your team will plan to optimize 100 posts over the next
month to improve the content and satisfy the optimization checklist in your blogging
tool, republish those posts, and share through social media.
The intended KPI result may be an increase in traffic to those 100 posts after a month
of promotion by 5% or more.
For the third question about following-up with your form submissions, you may want
to create automated workflow responses to existing form submissions.
7

It's important to tailor your follow-up email content to the context of what the visitor
engaged with or submitted through a form to create a personalized experience
despite your automated delivery.
In this case, you may have a productivity goal to create five follow-up emails for 10 of
your website forms over the next month.
The intended result may be that each workflow succeeds in driving 5% of workflow
enrollees to take the main action that your workflow emails promote.
For the fourth question about reaching out to existing contacts, you may consider a
re-engagement qualifying campaign for contacts who you need either more
information or more engagement from in order to consider them qualified to speak
with sales.
Here you could launch a limited-time content offer like a webinar, which you promote
to your existing contacts.
Your intended outcome may be to have 20% of your contacts who view your webinar
registration page sign-up, and 50% of those people attend.
These are some simple, short-term project ideas you can implement using Marketing
Hub, but the process for setting and working towards achievable goals with your
team should be an ongoing and transparent process. For now, best of luck
identifying your next project that you can implement with Marketing Hub.

8

